welcome to movie summary today i am
going to explain science fiction
thriller film tenet
protagonist participates in an
extraction operation at a kiev opera
house
a masked soldier wearing a red trinket
saves his life by unfiring a bullet
through a gunman
after seizing an artifact the
protagonist is captured by mercenaries
he is tortured before consuming what he
believes to be a suicide pill
he awakens to learn the suicide pill was
a test of loyalty and that the artifact
was lost
the protagonist is recruited by an
organization called tenet
a scientist briefs him on bullets with
inverted entropy meaning they move
backward through time
she believes they are manufactured in
the future and other inverted objects
seem to be remnants of a war in the
future
the protagonist meets his handler neil
through a cia contact
and they trace the inverted bullets to
arms dealer priusing in mumbai
they learn that priya is a member of
tenet and her cartridges were purchased
and inverted by russian oligarch andre
sater in london
the protagonist approaches sader's
estranged wife cat an art appraiser who
falsely authenticated a forged goya
drawing
she tells him that sader purchased the
drawing from the forger areppo
and is using cat's authentication as
blackmail to control her in their
relationship
the protagonist and neal plot to steal
the drawing from a freeport storage
facility at the oslo airport
there they fend off two masked men who
seemingly emerge from a strange device
afterward priya explains that the device
is a turnstile
a machine that can invert the entropy of
objects and people and that the masked
men were the same person traveling in
opposite directions through time
on the amalfi coast italy kat introduces
the protagonist to seder
and learns the drawing is intact sater
plans to kill the protagonist
but the protagonists save sader's life
after cat attempts to drown him
sader and the protagonists strike a
partnership to retrieve a case that
supposedly contains plutonium-241
in tallinn the protagonist and kneel
ambush a convoy and steal the case
which actually contains the artifact
lost in kiev
they are ambushed by an inverted seder
holding cat hostage
the protagonist gives an empty case to
satyr who retreats after receiving it
the protagonist rescues cat but is soon
captured and taken to a warehouse with a
turnstile
in the warehouse the inverted seder
shoots cat with an inverted round
while the non-inverted seder demands the
location of the artifact
kenneth operatives led by ives arrive
and rescue the protagonist while sader
escapes into the turnstile
the group takes cat through the
turnstile to aid healing her inverted
wound
the now inverted protagonist travels
back in time to the ambush site
where he attempts to retrieve the
artifact but is intercepted by seder
the protagonist's car is overturned and
catches fire but neil saves him and
reveals he is a member of tenet the
protagonist
neil and cat travel back in time to the
freeport in oslo
the protagonist fights his past self
enters the turnstile
and reverts followed by neil and cat
later
priya explains that satyr is collecting
the artifacts to assemble an algorithm
which is capable of catastrophically
inverting the entropy of the earth.cat
reveals satyr is dying from pancreatic
cancer
they learn that sader is using a dead
man's switch to trigger the algorithm
kat believes satyr will travel back in
time to commit suicide during their
vacation in vietnam
so that the world will die with him at
the last moment he was happy
tenet tracks the algorithm to sader's
hometown in northern siberia
where it is heavily guarded they launch
a temporal pincer movement
with non-inverted red team troops and
inverted blue team troops making a
simultaneous assault
sater reveals people in the future want
him to trigger the algorithm in the
hopes of reversing the effects of
climate change
an inverted blue team soldier wearing a
red trinket sacrifices himself to save
the protagonist and knives as they
attempt to secure the algorithm hat
kills sater just as the protagonist
secures the algorithm the protagonist
neil and ives break up the algorithm and
part ways
the protagonist notices that neil is
wearing the red trinket
neil reveals he was recruited by the
protagonist in neil's past and this
mission is
from his perspective the end of a long
friendship
since cat knows too much priya attempts
to have her assassinated
but priya is killed by the protagonist
who has concluded that he is the
mastermind behind tenet
movie ends in that scene please like
share and subscribe